Graphs Terminology
A graph consists of:
 A set, V, of vertices (nodes)
 A collection, E, of pairs of vertices from V called edges (arcs)
Edges, also called arcs, are represented by (u, v) and are either:
Directed if the pairs are ordered (u, v)
u the origin
v the destination
Undirected if the pairs are unordered
A graph is a pictorial representation of a set of objects where some pairs of objects are 
connected by links. The interconnected objects are represented by points termed 
as vertices, and the links that connect the vertices are called edges.
Formally, a graph is a pair of sets (V, E), where V is the set of vertices and Eis the set 
of edges, connecting the pairs of vertices. Take a look at the following graph −
In the above graph,
V = {a, b, c, d, e}
E = {ab, ac, bd, cd, de}
Then a graph can be:
Directed graph (di-graph) if all the edges are directed
Undirected graph (graph) if all the edges are undirected
Mixed graph if edges are both directed or undirected
Illustrate terms on graphs
End-vertices of an edge are the endpoints of the edge.
Two vertices are adjacent if they are endpoints of the same edge.
An edge is incident on a vertex if the vertex is an endpoint of the edge.
Outgoing edges of a vertex are directed edges that the vertex is the origin.
Incoming edges of a vertex are directed edges that the vertex is the destination.
Degree of a vertex, v, denoted deg(v) is the number of incident edges.
Out-degree, outdeg(v), is the number of outgoing edges.
In-degree, indeg(v), is the number of incoming edges.
Parallel edges or multiple edges are edges of the same type and end-vertices
Self-loop is an edge with the end vertices the same vertex.


Simple graphs have no parallel edges or self-loops
Properties
If graph, G, has m edges then Σv∈G deg(v) = 2m
If a di-graph, G, has m edges then
Σv∈G indeg(v) = m = Σv∈G outdeg(v)
If a simple graph, G, has m edges and n vertices:
If G is also directed then m ≤ n(n-1)
If G is also undirected then m ≤ n(n-1)/2
So a simple graph with n vertices has O(n
2
) edges at most
More Terminology
Path is a sequence of alternating vetches and edges such that each successive vertex 
is connected by the edge. Frequently only the vertices are listed especially if there are 
no parallel edges.
Cycle is a path that starts and end at the same vertex.
Simple path is a path with distinct vertices.
Directed path is a path of only directed edges
Directed cycle is a cycle of only directed edges.
Sub-graph is a subset of vertices and edges.
Spanning sub-graph contains all the vertices.
Connected graph has all pairs of vertices connected by at least one path.
Connected component is the maximal connected sub-graph of a unconnected graph.
Forest is a graph without cycles.
Tree is a connected forest (previous type of trees are called rooted trees, these are free 
trees)
Spanning tree is a spanning subgraph that is also a tree.
More Properties
If G is an undirected graph with n vertices and m edges:
 If G is connected then m ≥ n - 1
 If G is a tree then m = n - 1
 If G is a forest then m ≤ n – 1
Graph Traversal:
1. Depth First Search
2. Breadth First Search

